Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have a great treat in store for us today.
This is the first time this has happened to me and I am very honored that we have with
us one of America's great and fine citizens.
Somebody that you all know or read about or admire, former and every weight champion of
boxing champion of the world, Jack Dumpsey.
Jack Goodesido.
Thank you very much, Senator.
I'm just a great privilege and I'm a great honor to be here with you today and thank
you very much.
Well, Jack Dumpsey is in Washington today.
He's been autographing.
Jack, I see your hands are pretty, thank you.
Yes, I need a little bathroom, Senator.
I'm a busy pen.
Sports Illustrated has a special feature.
The three greatest champions in ten sports and Jack Dumpsey, Shagrid Ray Robinson and
Joe Lewis are the all time champions in the sport of boxing.
Jack's been here autographing sports illustrators and also Jack I want to get a cut on this
role.
But Robert Consta Dyer wrote a great book, Dumpsey the Man.
That's right.
And you've been autographing a lot of books and so if we sell any on this program I want
you to be sure and remember me.
I certainly will, Senator.
Thank you.
How are you feeling, Senator?
Very well, Senator.
Thank you.
I just got back from Honolulu, where I was out there for the armed forces and had a wonderful
time and a wonderful trip.
A lot of wonderful boys.
I hope we made a lot of people happy because they certainly made me happy.
Well, as you folks know, Jack Dumpsey is spending a lot of time doing charities traveling
around the world, putting on showers without any compensation for the benefit of our men
and the service who are serving abroad.
I know they're always glad to say they showed out of pictures of former fights and then
talk about fighting at these.
Well, we had what they call a boxing clinic.
I had a man named Al Warden, a sports head, who with me first I was introduced and he
was introduced.
But before all else we had pictures of some of the old fights and we had a picture of
this year's life.
The picture lasts for about a month, 15 minutes and we talked about a month and we had
about a month after the questions and answers.
That's about three hours, three and a half hours to show.
But Jack, how did you get this title of the man, a manastormowner?
Well, that was given to me a senator but the late Damon Runyon, Damon saw me fighting
Colorado while I was born and raised and when I came to New York in my 16, he called
me the old manastormowner.
So that's how I got this title.
That's the title as far as you ever said.
That's what I thought.
Yes, my people, most of my people, my mother was born in Virginia.
My father and less Virginia.
And part of my family were in town in Tennessee and down Kentucky, down through
there.
And you and no about these Tennessee and Kentucky ham?
I said, you do, I was more or less raised on this.
Well, Jack, we were looking over your record here a little while ago and we found that
you fought a lot of times down in Tennessee.
I believe that back in 1918 you fought a Fred study at Memphis, Tennessee.
Do you remember that?
Yes, I remember very well.
I boxed on that several times and had a wonderful time.
We used to be a great sports center.
And that's Cepher, W.O.D.
And I just happened to think the name of the old promoter, that was Billy Hack, wonderful
man, a great promoter and a lot of good fighters came around there.
I was sure a lot of people in Memphis still remember him.
Oh, they certainly do, I'm sure.
And then shows you that in 1926 you had four opponents in Memphis and you knocked them
all out in one mile.
That was an exhibition to I remember that too, but they weren't too good.
Well, Jack, where did you win the heavyweight title?
I won the title from Jess Waller, July 4th, 1919 at Toledo, Ohio.
And I remember that I was a high school student at Madisonville and those days that's a little
town over in East Tennessee.
Those days there wasn't any television, no radio.
And all of us went down to the railroad station to get the return of the fight.
That's all we could get around after round.
And I remember when you won the heavyweight champion.
What was that a rough fight?
Well, it was a big thing for me.
Of course, everyone who wants to be a fighter is a fighter.
I had one ambition that's to be tied, but to win the title.
Of course, that was my big day and big thrill.
But after thinking over and looking back all these years, it wasn't a tough fight.
It was an easy fight.
I mean, not a fight.
One of the easiest fights I ever had because it was one sided fight.
Word was big and strong, but he was very slow.
And it'd been all of the game for a couple years, but it made it a very easy fight for me.
What were your hardest fights?
You have a head.
Well, I'd say Sharky.
I should say Tommy twice because he'd like to be a fighter.
Well, you know, Jack Sharky, you fought him a couple of times.
Just one time, son.
You know, I was up in New Hampshire and I saw Jack Sharky sometime back.
I ran for the Democratic nomination up there a few years ago.
You remember him?
I ran across this fellow.
He was a great flycaster.
Yes, he does a good job.
Very well on fellow.
How about the FERPO fight?
Was that a...
That was an LR3.
I was pumped up for the Argentinian.
Yes, I was.
What are you looking at, fights?
I knew that.
I thought I was fighting a fellow couldn't fight very much and so that up when you got
not taught myself.
After the first points, I didn't want that I was in a fighter-foot race.
I knocked out of the ring and came back and, in my effect, I was out about one minute
before the starting of the second round.
I came too, I thought I'd been knocked out, but my manager, Mr. Kern, said I hadn't
and I got lucky and fine knocked him out, but it was a great thrill and I was pretty lucky.
So I remember he used to have a crouching style.
He'd get right down the...
Well, I said, I don't know.
I know that.
That's right.
And then you held the championship for quite a long time, of course.
And then I believe you lost it to Jean-Tunney and Philadelphia in 1926.
That's right.
Tony, a great fighter.
Tony was a good fighter, so I'd read it.
And then the next year you fought him out at Chicago.
That's right.
And then we were talking about that being the battle of the wrong count.
That's exactly what it was.
How did that count, Grew?
Was that the...
Well, it turned out pretty well for me.
I'm fast, the count had very, very slow.
But it wasn't that slow, very exactly.
They passed this new law where a man is going an off-down, so he goes to a nuclear corner.
They had what they called a knock-down timekeeper.
Outside was to pick the count up as a man went down.
The man inside was to put you in a nuclear corner.
Then he'd come back and pick the count up and you were some of the man outside.
Well, I made the first mistake, but I'd go back to the nuclear corner.
And I think the referee made the second mistake, not picking up the new person with a man
outside.
The second mistake got up to about eight and Tony had been roughly starved all over.
But I've always contend it was a great break for Jack Dipsy.
Why, Jack?
You're a lot of people.
Well, the reason I say that, a lot of my friends who started fight still think I wanted.
As long as I keep them thanking that, I still say it was a great break for Jack Dipsy
and a tough break for Gene Toney.
Because you're still a champ in the minds of a lot of people and...
Well, I'm not...
I'm able to do you to go out and do something else that you want.
I'm not...
I'm not going to send me a counter dot.
In other words, they still remember that fight.
And if I can keep them remembered that and have them thank the way they do, I'm very happy.
You were talking about...
You said something about Jack Kern's a little while ago.
He was your manager?
Yes, sir.
He was my manager.
He was with me when I won the title.
We had him before our Andy Trust and Monopoly subcommittee sometime back and he's still very spy.
He said he had fought in Alaska back in the days of Jack London and those old days.
He said who was that?
Was his manager?
I mean, was Jack Kern's manager?
Yes, I think.
Was all of the wild boar, the wild boar, his name or wild boar?
Yes.
Jack Kern is about it.
Well, I don't know exactly how he is.
I think he's got to be up there because I'm 56 under and he's at least 1500 crony as I'd think,
older than I am, so he must be a lot of...
And you're 66.
You're 66, sir.
You don't look more than 56.
Thank you.
Well, Jack, you've been following boxing all these years since that time.
What do you think about present-day boxers as compared with the...
...fucking the old days when you and Fr. Owen shark you?
Well, Sunder, I certainly need to want to degrade anyone and make anyone look bad.
I think the further back we go on the fight game, the more regular, the better champions,
better fighters.
We have most days because they have more experience in background than the president's modern-day fighters have.
I think the old-time fighters were better.
Right, they have clubs back in the old days, so he should kept them better.
Well, they thought more often, I think they were better seasoned than they had better craters.
In other words, these fellows had long experienced background.
I know what to do, which the modern fighters doesn't get that experience in background,
the old time has gotten.
And, well, who do you think is the best in the fight game today?
Well, I, in the heavyweight division, I would still say Patterson,
because he's still the champion.
But as I said before, I don't think these fellows we have to be compared with the old-timers.
Did you see the old Johansson Patterson fight?
I saw the first two fights, but I didn't miss out, I didn't see the last one, Sunder.
Well, the sunny list in this challenging Patterson, present time,
how do you think that might come out as a fight?
Well, I don't think Patterson takes a punch any too well,
but at the same time he's a good boxer, he's globally moves wrong, good.
I saw this in one fight and he looked very slow and very awkward with the time he fought to meet him.
I think that was important, Martin, last winter.
Now, if Matzin hits him, of course, he not Patterson up,
but she got a hit on the man before he knocked him out.
And neither of them take a look to the world.
That's right, they won't take a punch too well.
Jack, your own addition to doing all your charities
and your work with the armed services you have a great, big, fine restaurant in New York.
Sir, thank you for having me.
Thank you, sir.
One time I was there and you came in.
But pretty soon we're going to have hearings about a boxing bill.
We all know that fighting business has gotten in many places into the hands of the recordiers
and improper people and has been degraded considerably.
It's not been your experience here as well.
Mr. Mayor, may I extend to you my congratulations and best wishes.
I only wish we had a few more men who would stick up for the boxing game
and put it back where it was in the old days.
The fight game is just about on its way out.
In other words, it's just ready to be buried if something's not done and done fast.
And I've read you a book and I've read it before we do that for saving you about that.
I think the American people want good clean boxing in the hands of good people and great people.
Like Shesney do.
They want to look up to the world champion and know that there is any funny stuff
that's been going on in connection with that.
I'm certainly going to have a funny, relaxing one, but if the fight game is saved
it's got to be saved through the government.
You must come in and set in and make these laws where we all know what they're all about.
If we get out of the line, we're not going to play the game.
In other words, you've got to play it on the level.
We've got to have rules and regulations government,
because these states cannot get together.
Well, pretty soon we're going to have you down here with other great men of the boxing game,
former champions, Jean, Tony and others, to testify in connection with us.
1-4-7-4, which is for the purpose of cleaning out the recorders and the boxing game.
And the managers, promoters and whatnot, so they're the fighters themselves
and the American people can have confidence in it.
You've been studying this matter, what you're feeling about it.
Well, I think you're 100% right.
I think there's many things to be talked about.
I think there's many changes can be made for the betterment of boxing.
But first, I think you're doing the right thing, but getting rid of undesirables
who do not belong in the boxing game.
Well, then, as you say, some states may have some regulations,
some may have others, and if they have trouble in one state,
they simply move on to another and have the fight failures.
That's correct.
I think we should have unified ruling on all these things,
on a nice sort of boxing game.
I said, whatever you want to call it, to see if these players stay in line.
But that's the purpose of this bill, and you're going to support it.
I certainly am 100%.
Well, exactly. We have a few minutes left.
Young people, young men, boys, all look up to you,
and know that you're a great fighter, and that you're a fine man,
and you're... what would be a few seconds of your advice to young people
who want to build up their physique?
Why don't you do a little boss?
I wouldn't tell him to go in the fight game right now.
But if they like fighting, in other words, do whatever you want to do.
First, I think the most important thing, Senator, for all children today,
is to get an education, a good background.
If they do that, they'll go through life, which I didn't have,
and I've always regretted.
But I think an education is very important.
Men live for the golden rule.
Do one to others as you'd like to be done by, and if you do that,
you'll get along fine.
Well, other than mothers and mothers and your churches, you'll be fine.
I wish we could go under this, because I know you have a lot of good advice
to give the young people of the nation, but our time is up,
and thank you very much, Chuck Dempsey.
Thank you, Senator, for the reason it's very busy.
Appreciate it tremendously.
That's all for now. Thank you.